# 4-Effective-Ayurvedic-Self-Care-Practices-For-A-Happy-Living-
The only way you can show that you love your mind, body and soul is through self-care and self-nurturing. You can make self-care more effective by practising it in your daily life. Making self-care a routine regularizes a person’s biological clock, helps in digestion and gives rise to peace, happiness and longevity. As a result, you become the best version of yourself. This emphasizes the fact that self-care Ayurveda practices are essential to live a happy life.  Ancient Ayurveda teaches us that nourishing our unique patterns of energy is important in order to have a balanced life. This can be done through a comprehensive set of practices. You should balance your body’s system through diet, self-care, preventive care and herbs. This way you can nurture the connection between your physical, mental and spiritual well being. Through Ayurveda practices, you can develop a self-understanding, improve your consciousness and live in harmony with the laws of the universe. Even though you would want to live holistic and happy lives, you get bogged down by everyday stresses. A stress-driven body is a threat to a healthy lifestyle. This leads to various health issues. One good way to ward off diseases and lead a balanced life is through Ayurveda self-care practices.  Here are 4 effective Ayurveda practices to incorporate into your daily routine  Nutrition plays a central role in the Ayurvedic way of life. According to Ayurveda, even though each person has a different digestive capacity, quality and the appropriate quantity of food is necessary for a healthy life. Food taken in proper quantity provides strength, vigour, good complexion and nurtures the health of the tissues.  You must choose a diet that is rich in nutrients. Nutrient-rich foods have low sugar, sodium, starches, bad fats content and contain a lot of vitamins and minerals, and a few calories. Micronutrients are important for your body as they help nourish and reduce the risk of diseases.  Even though nutrient-rich food is important one must not stick to only nutrients, vitamins, proteins and fibre. According to Ayurveda, health is much more than just physical health. Mental, emotional, social, spiritual well-being are all as important as physical health. And food impacts all of these areas of health. For instance, satisfying your emotional health by eating ice cream or cheeseburger once in a while will not impact your health so much.  We must choose healthy and wholesome food which nourishes the mind, body and soul. Some ayurvedic nourishing foods to add to your diet include lemons, ghee, dates, figs, almonds, ginger, mung beans, cumin seeds, lassi, juicy seasonal fruits, green leafy vegetables, cow’s milk and water.  When we think about an oil massage, the first thing that comes to mind is the luxurious spa treatment. But the practice of Ayurvedic self-massage with oil, also known as Abhyanga, is recommended daily. Learning how to massage your body would make it a simple self-care practice. This act of massage will remove all your stress and tension from the muscles, giving you a happy and sound body. The Ayurvedic massage benefits are enhanced with the best quality ayurvedic massage oils. Franch Oil NH* Plus is one such ayurvedic oil with plenty of benefits including the healing of skin problems, hair protection, reducing body heat, eliminating stretch marks and muscle pain to name a few.  Other health benefits from including an oil rub into your daily morning or evening routine includes, nourishment for the whole body, increased longevity, graceful ageing, and improved sleeping patterns. To know more: https://franchglobal.com/4-effective-ayurvedic-self-care-practices-for-a-happy-living/
